In the last lecture we have been talking about linear regression.
And we have come to the conclusion that the aim of linear regression is defined a linear relationship
between the given features.
So basically we have to fit a linear line to the data point and a good question is how to find this
optimal model how to find the optimal green line.
OK so that's why we have to talk a bit about the means squared error.
It is the difference between the Y so the actual values present in the data set because it is a supervised
learning algorithm.
We have a dataset with the actual values.
OK.
In our example divide values are the prices.
Do we have the prices in the data set.
Of course we have the prices as the third column in the C yes we file.
So these are the prices associated with a given house.
We do give a number of bedrooms number of bathrooms square feet of the living room and so on.
So we have the prices OK.
These are the y actual values and we have the age x values predicted by the model.
OK so the Green Line is going to define the age X model.
So for example if we have this first data point as you can see the data point is going to be the actual
value present in the data set and the Green Line is going to be the age x value predicted by the model.
So of course they are not the same.
So there is some error term it is the same for the second point in the data set the price is equal to
two hundred and ninety dollars approximately.
But according to The Age X model this price is approximately one hundred and ninety dollars.
So again there is some difference between the actual value in the data set and the value predicted by
the model.
Okay so we can define these means squared error or as the differential between the actual values and
The Age x values predicted by the model we have to calculate the square because we just care about the
differentials.
We don't care whether the result is smaller than zero or greater than zero.
We're just curious about the differential so that's why h x minus y squared it is the cost function
or the means squared error or even this term is smaller what does it mean that there's a small error
or it means the model the predictions are very close to the actual values which is good even this term.
So what is age X minus Y squared is big.
It means that there is a huge error term.
So the modal predictions differ from the actual values it is bad.
OK.
So we can define the Epsilon 1 Epsilon 2 Epsilon 3 up to Epsilon 8 error terms as you can see the error
is always the difference between the actual value present in the data set and the value predicted by
the model.
OK so this is the Epsilon 1 error term we have an epsilon two error term and if we want to calculate
mean squared error or we have to some of these error terms and because we are dealing with means squared
error or we have to calculate the square of these error terms.
So we just have to some of these error terms.
And of course the smaller the better.
So what's the final aim of optimization.
The final aim is to find the optimal B to zero and b to warm parameters in order to end up with a linear
modal and a linear relationship between the acts and the age acts were arguable.
So basically the ax is the house size and age X is the price of that given house.
So we would like to end up with a linear relationship between these features.
OK.
So what do we have to do.
We just have to calculate the minimum out of the means squared error so this Ajax is the prediction
from our linear model.
So basically the linear regression model this Y is the value we know from the training data side because
it is a supervised learning algorithm and we want to find the minimum by tuning the beta parameters.
OK there are two options we can use Design matrices in order to solve this optimization problem so we
can transform the problem into linear equations and use the standard method read the half of matrix
operations so the optimal beta parameters are going to be the X transpose where x is the matrix constructed
from the features times.
So we have to calculate the inverse of this matrix and we have to multiply it by X transpose.
And finally we have to multiply it by the dependent variable.
Okay.
So if you are interested in linear algebra then you can check out this website because here are lots
of lots of good examples how to deal with the matrix says as far as linear regression is concerned.
As you can see we are looking for a linear relationship.
Why.
R is equals to be the 0 plus B to 1 times x y.
So we just have to construct matrices out of the data set and then we just have to use the formula we
have discussed.
As you can see this is the formula we have discussed in order to get the beta parameters.
OK.
The other approach is gradient descent.
It is a first order iterative optimization algorithm for finding the minimum of a function.
OK you may pose the question that what is this function.
The function is the means squared error or as far as low dimensional problems are concerned.
Using the linear algebra approach is the best one.
OK so low dimension means few features but usually we have to deal with lots of lots of features and
lots of lots of data points.
Basically this is why big data came to be because we have to handle huge data sets and matrix operations
are quite expensive in a higher dimension.
So if we want to calculate the inverse of a matrix so we the half of go's Jordan elimination.
The final time complexity is going to be Aldo and cubed OK by the way we can do better than go with
Jordan elimination.
But anyways matrix operations are quite slow so that's why as far as machine learning is concerned we
don't use linear algebra we use gradient descent instead it is an iterative approach and it works quite
fine in higher dimensions and usually this is the case we have huge datasets with lots of lots of features
and lots of lots of values.
So that's why gradient descent is going to be faster and going to outperform linear algebra approaches.
OK.
So in the next lecture we are going to talk about gradient descent.
Thanks for watching.